# Select Star Project --- Sports Stats Plus
Sports Stats plus is a simple databases project made for a CS340 class at Oregon State University. It uses JavaScript and a SQL based database to hold information about Basketball stats. The project features user interfaces to interact with the database intuitively with simple abstractions. Relationships must stay established based on the designs, but INSERT, DELETE, and UPDATE, all have very poor abstracting facades.

## Purpose of the Project
The purpose of the project was to show that the group could accomplish browser side code enacting changes on a database via HTTP request. We used Handlebars, Sass, and VanillaJS for client side coding. We used Node.js for server side code. The database was guaranteed to have a MariaDB engine. The project is not publically hosted. The project needed at least 4 entities all with the ability to insert and delete. The project also required at least 4 different relationships in cardinality.

### Warning to all yee who enter here
*This is spaghetti code.* Much of the programming was done during late nights thanks to an opposing internship that occured at the inception of this project. Ideally more of the codebase would have been abstracted, designed, and encapsulated. The team had not used AJAX structures before. Much of the code is copied rather than modularized. This will be later mentioned in the goals.

## How to use the project
Install and run a mysql server. Configure the dbcon.js file then start the server.

### Configuring the server
Create a database/schema and then import the data definition sql files under the `/dumps` directory off of the project root.

#### DDQ verus init
The DDQ_FINAL.sql file and init.sql file perform the same operations ideally. The init.sql was user generated while the DDQ_FINAL.sql is generated by phpmyadmin. Feel free to use either to initiate your database with values.

### Configuring dbcon.js

The dbcon file is as follows in the `/server_src` directory off of the project root.  
`var mysql = require('mysql');`  
`var pool = mysql.createPool({`  
` connectionLimit : 10,`  
` host            : 'HOSTNAME',`  
` user            : 'USER_NAME',`  
` password        : 'PASSWORD',`  
` database        : 'SCHEMA_NAME'`  
`});`  
Simply fill in the capital variables above with the actual string representations of the fields. These are the details of your database which the server needs to access. If you need more information, look at the [mysql](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql#introduction) package on npm.

### Running the server

This works brilliantly with npm. Simply install based on the package.json
`npm install`
then you can either start a background process with the forever package
`npm start`
or simply run the index.js with node.
`node index.js`

The server runs on port 11777 by default, but can be configured with a `PORT` process environment variable set prior to runtime.


## Adding to the project
There was no style guide for this and the project will be considered graded by 7/1/2019. I will not accept pull requests to this project until then. I will also say, this project replicates what already exists on the world wide web. When making the entries for this database, much better services arose. For this reason I would highly suggest only adding to this project for educational demand. Feel free to shoot me an email if you have questions

### Further Goals
- Modularize codebase (Have public utility modules to avoid copied code segments)
- Adding features for a broader audience (Alt-text for screen readers etc.)
- Adding a REST api for loading data entries rather than creating them by hand
- Adding better formats for date text entries
- Adding a more creative style which best encapsulates the information in a user-friendly way
- Adding more information when user needs to error handle (i.e. server errors for attempting to add positions that do not exist.)
- Add Official Documentation and guide to UI

## Technologies Used
Check package.json for official packages used.
- Handlebars
- npm mysql package
- Sass (node-sass)
- VanillaJS (just normal JS... why didn't we use JQuery...)
- Node.js
- Express
- forever


## How to test
Oh... Was I suppose to include testing modules?
